Smart contracts whitelist (#169)
moondance-labs/tanssi-docs: builders/manage/developer-portal/smart-contracts-creation-filter.md

---

> title: Smart EVM - Whitelist Smart Contracts Deployment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Smart EVM - Whitelisted Smart Contracts Deployment
```

Author: "Whitelist" is intended as a verb here (the other titles in the section start with verbs like manage, dispatch, enable, etc)

Reviewer: Then I would say "Whitelist Smart Contract Deployments"

> title: Smart EVM - Whitelist Smart Contract Deployments

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: Smart EVM - Whitelist Contract Deployments
```

> description: Learn how to use Sudo to whitelist smart contracts deployers for your Smart EVM Tanssi appchain, increasing overall security.

Author: We don't have a definition from mkt on this I think

> description: Learn how to use Sudo to whitelist smart contracts deployment for your Smart EVM Tanssi appchain, increasing overall security.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Learn how to use Sudo to whitelist smart contracts deployers for your Smart EVM Tanssi appchain, increasing overall security.
```

---

# Smart EVM - Whitelist Smart Contracts Deployment

## Introduction {: #introduction }

EVM-compatible Tanssi appchains benefit from a unique feature: the appchain governor can define which accounts are authorized to deploy smart contracts, forbidding the action for any other non-whitelisted account.

This feature brings several key benefits that might be a great fit for different use cases or contexts. Some of those benefits are:

- **Enhanced Security** - by restricting deployment to trusted accounts, the risk of deploying malicious or vulnerable smart contracts is reduced
- **Quality Assurance** - known and vetted accounts can be required to follow specific coding standards and undergo thorough testing before deployment

> - **Regulatory Compliance** - uses cases that are highly regulated can limit deployment to ensure that smart contracts meet legal and compliance requirements

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Regulatory Compliance** - uses cases that are highly regulated and can limit deployment to ensure that smart contracts meet legal and compliance requirements
```

- **Spam and Abuse Prevention** - prevent bad actors from deploying large numbers of unnecessary or harmful contracts

> In this guide, you'll learn how to use the Sudo account to manage the whitelisted accounts that will be able to deploy smart contracts on your appchain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this guide, you'll learn how to use the Sudo account to manage the whitelisted accounts that can deploy smart contracts on your appchain.
```

## Checking Prerequisites {: #checking-prerequisites }

> For the examples in this guide, you will need to have the following:

Reviewer: These prerequisites are not in a snippet right?

Author: Not yet, but definitely should.
I'll create a ticket to revisit these guides, create the snippets and update the screenshots

--8<-- 'text/builders/manage/locate-sudo-account.md'

## Getting Started {: #getting-started }

To follow the next sections of this guide, head to Polkadot.js Apps for your Tanssi appchain. The Polkadot.js Apps link for your Tanssi appchain can be found in your [Tanssi Dashboard](https://apps.tanssi.network){target=\_blank} underneath the **Tooling** section.

![Locating your Polkadot.js Apps Link on apps.tanssi.network](/images/builders/manage/developer-portal/smart-contracts-creation-filter/smart-contracts-creation-filter-1.webp)

Once in Polkadot.js Apps, navigate to the **Developer** Tab and click on **Sudo**.

!!! note
    If you do not see **Sudo** in this menu, then you have not associated the Sudo account with Polkadot.js Apps. Make sure that your [Sudo account is injected by your wallet and connected to Polkadot.js Apps](/builders/manage/developer-portal/sudo/#configuring-polkadotjs-apps){target=\_blank}

> ## WhiteListing Accounts {: #whitelist-accounts }

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Whitelisting Accounts {: #whitelist-accounts }
```

To define the accounts that will have authorization to deploy smart contracts, [get your Polkadot.js Apps started](#getting-started) and then take the following steps:

> 1. Select the **parameters** pallet. **setParameter** will be automatically selected in the functions selector and **ContractDeployFilter** in the KeyValue parameter

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Select the **parameters** pallet. **setParameter** will be automatically selected in the functions selector and **ContractDeployFilter** in the **keyValue** parameter
```

> 2. Two options will be available in the **ContractDeployFilter** selector: **AllowedAddressesToCreate** and **AllowedAddressesToCreateInner**. Select the **AllowedAddressesToCreate** option if you want to whitelist the accounts for smart contracts deployment and the latter to whitelist the accounts for indirect  (via a smart contract call) smart contract deployment

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Two options will be available in the **ContractDeployFilter** selector: **AllowedAddressesToCreate** and **AllowedAddressesToCreateInner**. Select the **AllowedAddressesToCreate** option if you want to whitelist the accounts for smart contract deployments and the latter to whitelist the accounts for indirect  (via a smart contract call) smart contract deployments
```

> 2. Two options will be available in the **ContractDeployFilter** selector: **AllowedAddressesToCreate** and **AllowedAddressesToCreateInner**. Select the **AllowedAddressesToCreate** option if you want to whitelist the accounts for smart contracts deployment and the later to whitelist the accounts for indirect  (via a smart contract call) smart contract deployment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Two options will be available in the **ContractDeployFilter** selector: **AllowedAddressesToCreate** and **AllowedAddressesToCreateInner**. Select the **AllowedAddressesToCreate** option if you want to whitelist the accounts for smart contracts deployment and the latter to whitelist the accounts for indirect  (via a smart contract call) smart contract deployment
```

3. Toggle the **Include option** switch
4. Select the **Whitelisted** option
5. Insert the whitelisted account
6. If you need to insert more than one account, click on **Add item**
7. Press **Submit Sudo** and confirm the transaction in your wallet

![Whitelisting Accounts](/images/builders/manage/developer-portal/smart-contracts-creation-filter/smart-contracts-creation-filter-2.webp)

These same steps can be repeated at any moment to remove an account from the whitelist or to add new ones.

> ## Reestablishing Permission to Deploy Smart Contracts {: #reestablishing-permission}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Restoring Permissions to Deploy Smart Contracts {: #restoring-permission}
```

> If you previously authorized some accounts to deploy smart contracts and want to restore the permissions for any account (with enough balance to pay the fees) to deploy smart contracts, then [get your Polkadot.js Apps started](#getting-started) and take the following steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you previously authorized some accounts to deploy smart contracts and want to allow any account to deploy smart contracts (as long as they can cover regular transaction fees), then [get your Polkadot.js Apps started](#getting-started) and take the following steps:
```

> 1. Select the **parameters** pallet. **setParameter** will be automatically selected in the functions selector and **ContractDeployFilter** in the KeyValue parameter

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Select the **parameters** pallet. **setParameter** will be automatically selected in the functions selector and **ContractDeployFilter** in the **keyValue** parameter
```

> 2. Two options will be available in the **ContractDeployFilter** selector: **AllowedAddressesToCreate** and **AllowedAddressesToCreateInner**. Select the **AllowedAddressesToCreate** option if you want to clear the whitelist for smart contracts deployment and the latter to clear the whitelist for indirect  (via a smart contract call) smart contract deployment

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Two options will be available in the **ContractDeployFilter** selector: **AllowedAddressesToCreate** and **AllowedAddressesToCreateInner**. Select the **AllowedAddressesToCreate** option if you want to clear the whitelist for smart contract deployments and the latter to clear the whitelist for indirect  (via a smart contract call) smart contract deployments
```

> 2. Two options will be available in the **ContractDeployFilter** selector: **AllowedAddressesToCreate** and **AllowedAddressesToCreateInner**. Select the **AllowedAddressesToCreate** option if you want to clear the whitelist for smart contracts deployment and the later to clear the whitelist for indirect  (via a smart contract call) smart contract deployment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Two options will be available in the **ContractDeployFilter** selector: **AllowedAddressesToCreate** and **AllowedAddressesToCreateInner**. Select the **AllowedAddressesToCreate** option if you want to clear the whitelist for smart contracts deployment and the latter to clear the whitelist for indirect  (via a smart contract call) smart contract deployment
```

3. Toggle the **Include option** switch
4. Select the **All** option
5. Press **Submit Sudo** and confirm the transaction in your wallet

![Clearing the Whitelisted Accounts](/images/builders/manage/developer-portal/smart-contracts-creation-filter/smart-contracts-creation-filter-3.webp)

> ## Query the Configuration {: #query-configuration }

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Query the Whitelisted Accounts {: #query-configuration }
```

> To get the current configuration containing the whitelisted accounts that can deploy smart contracts, go to Polkadot.js Apps (as explained in the [Getting Started](#getting-started) section), navigate to the **Developer** Tab, click on **Chain state**, and take the following steps:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To get the current configuration containing the whitelisted accounts that can deploy smart contracts, go to Polkadot.js Apps (as explained in the [Getting Started](#getting-started) section), navigate to the **Developer** tab, click on **Chain state**, and take the following steps:
```

1. Select the **parameters** storage
2. Select the **parameters(ContainerChainTemplateFrontierRuntimeParametersKey)** option
3. Make sure that the **Include option** switch is on
4. Make sure that the **ContractDeployFilter** option is selected

> 5. Two options will be available in the **ContractDeployFilter** selector: **AllowedAddressesToCreate** and **AllowedAddressesToCreateInner**. Select the **AllowedAddressesToCreate** option if you want to query the whitelist for smart contracts deployment and the latter to query the whitelist for indirect (via a smart contract call) smart contract deployment

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. Two options will be available in the **ContractDeployFilter** selector: **AllowedAddressesToCreate** and **AllowedAddressesToCreateInner**. Select the **AllowedAddressesToCreate** option if you want to query the whitelist for smart contract deployments and the latter to query the whitelist for indirect (via a smart contract call) smart contract deployments
```

> 5. Two options will be available in the **ContractDeployFilter** selector: **AllowedAddressesToCreate** and **AllowedAddressesToCreateInner**. Select the **AllowedAddressesToCreate** option if you want to query the whitelist for smart contracts deployment and the later to query the whitelist for indirect (via a smart contract call) smart contract deployment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Two options will be available in the **ContractDeployFilter** selector: **AllowedAddressesToCreate** and **AllowedAddressesToCreateInner**. Select the **AllowedAddressesToCreate** option if you want to query the whitelist for smart contracts deployment and the latter to query the whitelist for indirect (via a smart contract call) smart contract deployment
```
